Okay. So crowdfunding is
not just raising
money from the crowd.
It's also, in some sense,
potentially learning
from the crowd.
If I'm investing in crowdfunding,
I can potentially learn about
the value of an investment from
the demand coming in
from other investors.
When we talked about how
the price that I'm paying,
the price that I'm paying
is not a market set price.
It's an issuer set price.
They just put their price of
$10 or a share, whatever it is.
They put it out there,
you like it or not.
So how do I learn about whether
$10 is a reasonable price?
Well, okay, I'm going to have
to find out some other way.
One of those ways is to observe
the demand coming in
from other people.
Okay. So the issuers help you,
they help you learn
a potentially beneficial way from
the crowd by setting a minimum.
So you look at the offerings
in a crowdfunding website.
You'll see they've got a maximum,
but they've got a minimum too.
The minimum helps you in
the sense that you
can say, "Okay.
Well, I'll put 2,000
bucks in this company."
They've set a minimum
of 50,000 bucks.
So if they don't
get at least 50,000
bucks in investment from
everyone put together,
the whole thing is
going to be called off.
I always get my 2,000 bucks back.
So I know that when I say,
"I'm investing 2,000
bucks," I'm not
actually investing 2,000 bucks,
unless there's that
much other demand.
So that gives me potentially
a little confidence there,
a little hope that, well,
okay, maybe I got it wrong.
Maybe this isn't
such a great idea.
But how wrong could I be
if there's this total
of 50,000 bucks coming
in from other people?
I've got the crowd,
at least some kind of crowd,
on my side if we crossed
that 50,000 threshold.
If we don't, well, then I
just get my money back.
So the investment
simply never happens.
So this is an example
of at least banking on or
hoping for the wisdom of
the crowd that each person
in a crowd knows something.
If you could just put together
all those different things
that the people in
the crowd know,
that if you aggregate all
of their information,
then the aggregative information,
it could actually be
quite informative.
So let's think about this now.
This is not new ideas
and old idea that
there's wisdom of the crowds and
collectively decision
in general made by
a crowd are better informed
than the decision made by
any one person in the crowd.
This is a question that
economists have
thought about a lot.
Let me just give you a sense
of how economists
think about this.
I think the best context for
me to think about
this is actually
outside of the
financial markets and
in the judicial world.
So here's what I mean
by this. Imagine you
find yourself on a jury.
You got jury duty,
and so you go down
to the courthouse.
Then, by the end of the day,
you're on a jury for
a criminal trial.
So it's 12 people,
12 jurors for a criminal trial.
So you sit through the trial and
you see all the evidence,
all the testimony.
Then, finally, closing
statements, jurors are charged.
They go to the jury room.
Now, finally, they start
discussing the case
with each other.
All right. So they discuss
the case with each other.
Then, at the end of the
discussion, then they say, "Okay.
Well, how about we have a vote?"
They have a vote. Then
think of the vote happening
this way that you're going
to do it by a secret ballot.
You can do the votes
different ways,
but let's say, you're going
to do it by a secret ballot.
So everyone's going
to write down on
a piece of paper
guilty or not guilty.
Everyone tosses
their vote into a hat.
Then the foreman takes
them out the the hat,
reads them, counts them up.
Then, if all 12 of you
have voted guilty,
well, then that's it.
That's what it means
for a jury to convict.
All 12 you have voted guilty.
That's what it
takes. So let's say,
you're sitting there,
you've discussed it,
and you have more
than a reasonable doubt
about the defendant's guilt.
So you think reasonably
that the threshold is here,
but you have
more doubt than that.
So you think, "Well, okay.
I have more doubt than just
beyond a reasonable doubt.
So I guess that means I
should vote not guilty."
I would say, just
personally, I think yes,
it does mean you should
vote not guilty,
but let's think about how
you might think
through this problem.
This is the way economists
have thought about this,
and maybe we're
worried a bit about
the collective wisdom
of the group of jurors.
You might look at it
this way that, look,
I could vote not guilty
and maybe in some sense,
that's the right vote because
I have that much doubt.
But suppose I vote guilty.
Suppose I vote guilty.
Well, my vote of
guilty does not actually convict
the defendant unless
all 11 other people
also vote guilty.
Now, I have some doubts
about this case, but now,
if you tell me that
all 11 other people
think this defendant is guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt,
and of course, I know that they
know things that I don't know.
They come from
different walks of life.
They have different perspectives.
They maybe have their own ways of
judging the credibility of
witnesses and all that.
So they know things
that I don't know.
I could know things
they don't know.
But there's 11 of
them and one of me.
So if all 11 of them think
this person's guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt,
well, that contains
information for me.
That's going to
lower my own doubt,
and maybe it lowers
my own doubt to the point
where, actually,
I don't have much doubt anymore,
and I should now given
that much doubt.
I think guilty is the right vote.
So what I'm saying
is when I think,
"Should vote guilty
or not guilty?"
I might be thinking,
"Well, maybe I should vote
guilty despite my doubts.
Maybe I should vote guilty."
Because the only situation in
which it actually matters
that I voted guilty,
where that actually
convicts the person,
well, that's the state
of the world,
where all 11 other people think
the person is guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt.
If that many people think that,
well, then I think that too.
So that kind of thinking
could cause me to
disregard my own doubts and
then vote guilty when really,
by rights, the right vote
should be not guilty for me.
So this is non-financial
market here,
but the point here is that
the criminal justice system
depends on this idea
that when you have
these 12 jurors that
there's a wisdom of
crowds here that well,
we need all 12 people to think
this is guilty beyond
a reasonable doubt,
that's what it takes
to convict a person.
But in that context,
if all 11 other people are
really sincerely voting guilty,
only if that's
sincerely they think,
then to the 12 persons,
it could be totally rational.
I'm not saying this is
ethical but totally
rational to just go
ahead and vote guilty.
So it's not at all
clear that the criminal
justice system is
really aggregating
information quite
the way we would think it is.
I put this out to your own
experience introspection.
I mean, you've seen
criminal trials.
Do you think that the outcome
of criminal trials is really such
that all 12 people
really thought this was guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt,
or maybe there's some of
this free riding going on here?
Some people are just
voting guilty thinking,
"Well, if everyone
else thinks guilty,
well, then I'm going
to think guilty too.
So I'll vote guilty
even when I really ought
to vote not guilty."
So that's, of course,
different context,
but it helps us think
about this idea
of banking on the wisdom
of crowds in this context.
So for sure, it's
a comfort when I'm
thinking about putting
$2,000 in that well,
as you know, I only actually
make the investment
if other people have also
pick this investment.
But if I am just
free riding here on
other people's information,
then how do we know they're
not doing the same thing?
How do I know that there's
really no one here who
has too much of
information about this,
and everyone's just
hoping someone
else knows more than they do?
Maybe we're all crowdfunding.
The wisdom of crowds
makes the most sense
when different people
know different things.
You're bringing different bits
of information to
bear on whether it's a good idea.
Well, maybe there are
situations where
that's really true.
Maybe there's other situations
where, basically,
it's really we all
know the same thing,
which isn't very much.
So everyone doing the same thing
doesn't really mean that much.
They're not investing
for different reasons.
We're all investing for
the same sketchy reason.
So there's no more information
in 1,000 people investing
that way than
one person because it's
all the same scrap of information
that we are banking on.
So just to summarize this point,
you do have some
of this wisdom of
crowds going for you in
the crowdfunding context.
But I think you
want to think about
a little bit about
whether it's realistic in
a situation you're looking at
that the fact that
other people are
investing is telling you
things that you
don't already know,
or could it instead
be a situation
where everyone is hoping that
somebody knows something,
and they think there's a wisdom
of crowds and crossing
a threshold when,
in fact, there isn't.